As stated in the Information Handbook for Individuals Detained at CCDOC (Chapter 4 Rights, Privileges, and Services - Laundry) “The CCDOC provides you a clean uniform twice per week, fresh linens once per week.” Through records, we could prove this not to be true. We're lucky to get clothing once every two weeks, and when they do deliver clothing it's old and they're always missing the most used sizes. I know there is money being allocated to clothing—where is this money going, or who is it going to? Would a FOIA give us that answer? Also, Chapter 4 (Basic Rights While in the Custody of the CCDOC) states, in part, “You have the right to lead a healthy lifestyle at the CCDOC which means time for exercises.” Yes, we have time for exercise, but we only have one uniform and uniform exchange being non-existent some weeks, added with the new rule that if you were caught with your uniform off you will be locked up. Therefore, you can't work out. How can you work out in a uniform, get in the shower, and put on the same sweaty uniform? So that stops any workout. A logical remedy would be to sell us sweats or shorts with DOC on the front and back.

We are handcuffed—well blue boxed—which is a device that handcuffs are placed in. They constrict your arms horizontally across your stomach and hold them there with a lock and chain. We have this device on us from 6:00 a.m. until 10:00 a.m. It is taken off while at court, but during transport back to Division 11 it is placed back on. In that four hour span of time, the chain around your stomach is extremely tight and the handcuffs eat into your skin. This is a United States Supreme Court case on handcuffing for long periods being unconstitutional: Hope v. Pelzer: 536-U.S.-730-2002.

The meals CCDOC feeds us have no nutritional facts labeling. So for the vast majority of us who have hypertension or diabetes, it is hard to gauge our intake of sodium or added sugars. I don't know if that department is entitled to release nutritional values to FOIA or if a lawsuit will have to be filed.

Global Tel Link, the telephone provider for CCDOC, is overcharging us. Their contract, which I obtained by way of FOIA, states $0.05 per minute. Enclosed is a copy of the contract or a page from the contract stating the rates. These cases are lawsuits against GTL for the same pattern and practices: Bobby James v. Global Tel link, Docket No.: 13-4989, and Walter Chruby v. Global Tel Link Corporation No.: 1-4-CV-456.

I hope everything I articulated gives you an idea of the violations CCDOC are committing when it comes to inmate rights.


Division 11/tier C/F. Yes I was in segregation from 9.12.23 to 10.11.23 in Division 9. Yes, I've been to Cermak. I've been in Cook County since 2012.

Yes I want to stay in contact with the Jail Solidarity Network. Yes you have full permission to use my quotes or excerpts in jsn materials for the public.

Jail experiences:
One of the main challenges of incarceration at CCDOC is not being looked upon as a human. With some COs that wall is an impossible barrier to overcome or break down, because their perception or preconceived notions are their reality. And with those perceptions and preconceived notions being played out right in front of them due to their occupation and us being incarcerated, it only feeds their warped, ill-informed thought process. The COs don't care to be informed on how the ghettos of Amerikkka were built on redlining and violence. Or the disparities of incarceration between whites and blacks; with statistical studies giving enlightenment to the idea that the system created by the controlling party made the system to where it would suit them. Now you have an uneducated lower class minority controlled by an educated ruling party with unchecked power, which is a recipe for disaster. In short, that is what the jail experience is about, from my perspective: constant fear and uncertainty due to uneducated preconceived notions, mixed with a passed-down hatred for minorities and unchecked power.

Unmet needs: Asking for help is a fight within itself, you pretty much have to sue for anything to change. The grievance system is controlled by the very individuals you are grievancing. If it was controlled by an outside independent agency, checks and balances would be implemented, or restored. Until that happens, the grievance system is just a horse and pony show or a tool to start a lawsuit. Pretty much all the answers are the same, your answer will always be "response stands."

Emotional needs: I would have to give the county an A+ on the visit system because you can receive contact visits and you can get to video visits a week. You can also use the tablet to communicate with your loved ones so it calms the stress.

you will be sent back to your tier. Substance use is punished and not treated. Medical services are terrible. You have to file a grievance which takes months because your medical request slip will be ignored until you talk to staff. And once you get to the dispensary, the nurses make you feel like your presence is doing them a disservice. And to get an appointment with a doctor, you have to get through the nurses because the nurses refer you to the doctor. Once you make it to the doctor your treatment is based on cost-cutting measures instead of actual remedies for your health. So it's a hectic maze you have to navigate through to receive adequate healthcare.  It's almost like an episode of Alfred Hitchcock's “Healthcare on a Tombstone.”

Food quality is deplorable. There is no nutritional value labels on the food served to us and the commissary is filled with products high in sodium or sugar. And the commissary and food service is owned by the same company, so it's like a monopoly. The food service(s) creates this menu of food you wouldn't feed your pets, which pushes us to buy the commissary, which leads to diabetes or high blood pressure, which leads to prescription pills in an earlier death.

Health conditions: I have had high blood pressure since being incarcerated. The treatment by nurses and social workers falls in line with the energy of the jail’s treatment to inmates; treat inmates as worse as possible and if you get caught showing any concern, you can potentially get ostracized by coworkers or threatened with write-ups by superiors. That energy helps the staff in line with the institutional racist ethos these institutions were built on.

Facilities: The water has a metallic taste to it even after running the water as the EPA recommended. After taking a shower, your skin is extremely dry and itchy. The showers are molded and what the County staff does to remedy the mold problem is paint over it. They have a pest control agency that comes around once a month to spray pesticide once a month and collect mouse traps. But in between those visits, the mice and bugs run rampant. The facilities only get cleaned when a visitor is in the building. With regards to these issues affecting my health, I can't definitively say yay or nay because I don't know what test to ask for with regards to drinking tainted water, or vermin feces.

Basic services: Laundry comes whenever they see fit to deliver laundry because there is no schedule. Recreation is run on time in division 11. The commissary once again only sells products high in sodium or sugar. Nothing is sold health-based, no dried fruit, nuts, healthy potato chips, alternatives, or bottled water.

Violence: Abuse by staff is prevalent within CCDOC. COs use violence as a way to control the masses; no different from the ideologies passed down from slavery. Whether it's mace, taser, or actual physical abuse. Yes, I've seen CO-on-inmate violence and inmate-on-inmate violence. Violence between inmates is rewarded by worker positions, world food, etc. I have been to solitary, you have to be equipped with fortitude, if not, one ticket can become 10 tickets quick. I got through my stay in solitary with a great support system from the outside world. Reporting officer abuse is putting a bull's eye on your back: missing mail, missing commissary. I have actually witnessed with my own eyes COs and solitary spray mace in inmates vents and not feed inmates for days for reporting them to superiors.

Discrimination: The racism is systematic so it can be carried out by any race employed by the system. Because when you think about racism you think white on black mistreatment, but with systematic racism, whomever is employed by the agency that was constructed with their ethos will exhibit these traits to the intended target. So it doesn't matter that CCDOC has a high employment of black and brown COs, the agenda will be carried out because of systemic racism, or those officers will be ostracized or fired.

I'm going to give you a couple of implicit racist policies CCODC has on its books. CCDOC is one of the biggest correctional facilities in regards to housing black detainees, but yet and still they do not sell no hair products for blacks. none. They also don't sell no hygienic products as well. Black publications are banned at a high rate, more than white publications, as if black violence is more detrimental than white violence. The racism by white male staff is implicit as well as explicit, but there is no way of ridding those COs because if you write a grievance, the response will be “those allegations were unfounded.”

Education: I have to give Tom Dart a B- on the subject of education because he's making a valiant effort to educate and place a lot of life-saving programs in CCDOC.

Legal: This could get long-winded but I'll try to give you a redacted substance-filled statement. The Cook County criminal justice system is a tool of the Amerikkkan government to keep slavery by a different name alive. The ethos has not changed since its inception, it's just glossed over with the perceptions of bureaucracy and a war on crime. The Public Defender's Office, States Attorney's Office, and the judges, work on the same vibrations. It's equivalent to selling humans to be stored in government run warehouses. For instance, in my case, I have been in the County since 2018 on a reverse and remand for a new trial by the appellate courts. I have been waiting 6 years to go to trial. I had a lawyer by the name of Steven L. Richards in which I paid $50,000, but I had to fire him because he wouldn't give me my discovery. Just think about that. You pay someone 50 grand and he won't even adhere to your constitutional rights that every citizen shall have the right to. It's my constitutional right to see the evidence, or inspect the evidence lodged against me, before trial. Now I have a public defender for murder(s), Kate Moriarty, and she's working tirelessly for me to take 20 years before she even went over my discovery, or even received all of my discovery. The State's Attorney is working tirelessly to withhold my discovery, but, my Public defender, instead of fighting to get all my discovery, is telling me to take 20 years. My judge, Charles P. Burns, has articles and papers written about how he has the most overturned cases in Cook County, and how he's basically a State's Attorney on the bench that sides with everything the police say. Oh yeah, I forgot Judge Burns was also the supervisor over the felony review unit during the reign of John Burge. So the 20 years I'm about to take is forced, but it's better than the 53 years I had.

Surveillance: Over the summer, Cook County staff or administration made a directive that each inmate can only have three books. So if your family couldn't take off work to pick up your books, they were destroyed. Thousands of books destroyed. Every time you go to segregation, your property is thrown away or given to the workers in seg. Your cell is searched every day and segregation and twice a week in population. No excuse. No reason. It's protocol. I'm numb because if you don't go numb you'll go crazy.

Demands: The system as it stands is draconian in nature and is a need for a complete overhaul. There have been some great strides with regards to prison reform thanks to Governor Pritzker and Kim Foxx, but the tentacles of special interest groups are so wrapped around the judges re-election, State's Attorney office, hence why Kim Foxx is running for re-election.
