00:00
You feel me? You suffer more going in than you did out here. Because we're going through trials all of us gotta go through at our age level. You're just a teen, we don't know what we're gonna do, but then when they see that they can defeat us in the state because the judge is gonna run with it when a judge shouldn't even be doing that. Therefore, you got to see what's real is right because they're human beings just like we are. We apply for this job. And when they get off work they gotta go home–that they have–so they should see how we feel.

00:30
Everybody not guilty cuz they get a trial to be guilty, and everybody not messed up because the situation that happened to them. And just because you got theives and rapists and robbers, don't mean the person that walked through that gate got to be necessary of them. So they treat all us the same when they're not equal events, because it can't be justice and peace if it's called protect and serve. That you protect us right, but you serve them. So how the hell we're being protected if we're on trial the same way?

01:00
So being in there is like being homeless on the street for ten years eating slop out the garbage. When they're getting paid for you to be in there. You know how much money they get paid for us to be in there? We make license plates out of there. We make all type of stuff out of here, and here it is, we get $10 a month, $20 a month, and y'all are charging us all this, Cermak too, to your community. And I got no problem with approaching them. We're dying anyway. So with that being said, they need to clear out the county, override the community that's up in there, which is the people with the job. They come in purposely to get paid to torture people and make it worse than what they was when they walked in.

01:43
Now I'mma keep it real with you. I'm not talking about the ones who are already sick. And if they are sick, what did you do to make them better? You didn't do nothing but make them even worse. Then you put the opposite on that deck then that deck going that opposite. This man ain't never been in a game in his life, why is he up here with gangs, he's ready to be slaughtered. It's a plan. It's a manipulation. You see this? You play chess before, baby? That's what you looking. The Cook County is a chess board. Go in and play it again and that's how you're gonna learn the ways of the world.
