00:00
I mean like legal documents like, okay, today's Sunday, right? They posted me to go home Friday. Friday. It's just now Sunday when I'm getting out. Yeah. I was in solitary confinement for about 38 days. Oh my god. I was only supposed to be in there for maybe like 30.

00:21
What was it like in there?

00:25
Officers beating up inmates. Like I seen two officers drag an inmate out, and since there's this thing called 'the bubble,' it's a part where the officers sit. Now in that section there isn't a camera. So when they was dragging him out, they kicked him in his face and stomped on him, you know what I'm saying, all because he swore at him and spit at him–didn't spit on him, spit at him. And then like some tiers, you know what I'm saying, the officers let people fight. God forgive, I'm not bragging, but I got into altercation. You know what saying, it was three guys. They tried to jump on me. But I wasn't finna allow that, and so I was the initiator. But all the times, they're supposed to have protected your safety. I was sitting in the dayroom and I got jumped on and literally the officers just stood there and watched me get jumped on. 

01:27
How did you cope with solitary for that long?

01:33
I don't know, I just kept telling myself 'Imma be out of here, Imma be out of here, I'm gonna get out of here eventually.' And like, there wasn't really, what do you call it, coming to your needs as far as a social worker, telling people what I need like 'I need this I need that.' My tooth was in a killing, and I put in multiple medical slips to get to the dentist and never got to the dentist.

01:59
Oh my god. So were you just like, truly just in your cell the entire day?

02:06
Pretty much. I mostly stayed in my cell. And I had the James Patterson book. I kept reading. And yeah, pretty much that was it. Stayed to myself, I don't really like vibe with other inmates. So yeah, just kept to myself.

02:25
That's so hard though. I mean, what did they even why did they send you in there if I can ask?

02:32
Solitary confinement? Because people were smoking in a bathroom, and since I was coming into the bathroom, you know, because I had to use the facilities. And they caught me on camera at the wrong place at the wrong time. So they just rounded a bunch of people up who was in the bathroom at that time, and I guess I happened to be one of the guys.

02:52
It's not like I mean, even if you had been smoking or whatever, like, solitary confinement is not going to help whatever you're going through.

02:58
Yeah, it's so traumatizing. I mean, how...I don't know. I just can't imagine being in solitary that long and did they even attempt to send any like counselors or anybody to you? They didn't even try?

02:58
No, right. For a lot of guys it makes it worse. You go to prison fine,  you come out mentally messed up. That's why a lot of guys–like take for instance, my oldest brother. My oldest brother went to prison at age 19, some years back. He got out a couple years ago. He's in there [CCJ] right now. And it's because he's mentally challenged because he's been in prison for so long. You know, he doesn't know how to cope with the outside world.

03:39
No. They don't. You could put as many slips as you can, put in as many grievances as you want. It's basically when they get to  you. And that stack of papers, it's like a mile high.

03:56
Yeah, it's not even clear to me where it goes. Did you feel like anybody was reading them?

04:02
No, I didn't. I felt like people were just sitting there, on their behinds, and really didn't even want to help to be at work. A lot of officers come there just to get their check. I understand it's a job, but it's certainly statute of limitations of what you allow and what you don't allow, like right from wrong. Inmates only ask for a little bit of necessities and those necessities are what's already supposed to be provided for him. Like, I didn't even have a washcloth to dry off with the entire time I was incarcerated. Like, I literally just got a washcloth maybe, what, two weeks ago?

04:42
Well and they look at you like you're manipulating them and it's just like you're asking for the things that are in your handbook, that you have the right to own.

04:50
Most definitely.

04:52
I'm so sorry. How did you deal with like, fear around staff too, because it sounds like the officers were so abusive?

05:01
Stayed into TV, and then when I've seen the this specific staff that were against inmates I kind of like, didn't even want to come out of my cell.

05:14
What was your experience during the rest of your time, outside of the, they call it like a Special Management Unit, right?

05:21
Yeah. Other than that it was fine.

05:25
Yeah, I mean, it sounds like, you know, because you don't gel as much with other folks who were in there. It sounds like it must have been pretty lonely these past couple months.

05:32
Lonely as hell. Because like, even then, like, you know there's a pin number for your phone to work? My PIN number never did work.

05:40
Oh my god, so you couldn't even contact anybody?

05:41
Couldn't contact not one soul. It never worked. I kept on sending–I even asked the sargeant to reset my pin number and when they did reset it, it was always the same pin that wasn't working. So they never even made an attempt to change it. You know? And if they did change it, they never gave me the actual pin number that was used, they  always gave me the same PIN number that was always...

06:12
So how was your tooth doing? Like were you able to get to the dentist?

06:16
No, it's hurting now but...

06:18
Do you need ibuprofen or anything?

06:20
Please.

06:20
Yeah, hold on. Give me one second.

06:22
Can I take it with Gatorade?

06:35
Yeah let me grab you a Gatorade too. These are two Aleeve if that works for you. Do you need more to take home?

06:51
This is fine, thank you.

07:04
I mean, did you get like water, food? Because from what we've heard, they just give you nothing, basically.

07:11
Food there is terrible. It's terrible. My dog wouldn't even eat that food. But you gotta do what you gotta do. I ain't gonna lie. I did manage to gain about 36 pounds since I've been in there, and I was like literally having to force the food down. But the food there is terrible.

07:30
Yeah. Well, it's just like all the medical services. I mean, mental health wise...

07:35
Terrible.

07:38
Did they offer any sort of mental health care?

07:41
No.

07:41
Yeah, I mean, we've heard about so many people being...

07:43
In the county, no. You literally have to take your time to go to prison to get the things you need. Cook County is the worst county in this entire state. To me, in the entire country. But most definitely this entire state, Cook County is the worst county.

08:02
What do you feel like makes it worse than the other places?

08:07
Services, safety, mental services, just pretty much, above all, every category.

08:25
Did you get laundry did you get rec time?

08:27
No rec time, none.

08:29
In the entire five months you were there?

08:31
None.

08:32
Wow. So this is the first time you've been outside in months. Yeah, I mean, we've heard like sleep is terrible too.

08:41
Yeah, they had to give me–actually that part they did help with. They did give me, was prescribing medications to sleep. But that only lasted for so long, because like after, I want to say about a week and a half, two weeks, I finally started to get immune to it. And I put it in another slip to increase the dosage. Even that takes a while.

09:04
Yeah. I mean for people in solitary too, because from what I understand, it's also where they said people who are struggling with mental health.

09:10
Yeah, like it depends on why they send you.

09:14
It just seems like it would be terrible for your mental health. Like what were you witnessing or hearing there, if you, I don't know if you got to talk to anybody.

09:23
No, I didn't get to talk to nobody. I talked to somebody maybe once and that was last month.

09:33
I'm just I'm so sorry for what you've been through. I mean, this is really hard to to heal from too.

09:39
Off the record, you guys don't happen to know like transportation services?

09:44
Yeah, we can get you either ride or we can tell you how to get somewhere on the bus. We can ask or I can just book you a Lyft and that so yeah, I got you. Yeah. Was there anything else that you experienced that you feel that people should know about?

10:07
I think that pretty much sums it all up. Yeah. Oh and another thing. Anybody else, they're not doing no more 50%. From here on out, it's 75% or more, you do 75% of your time. You don't get no more 50-50 percent of your time, they cancelled that. They want to keep people in the jails longer, and they want to make more money off of them. So as of January 6th, 2024, you get no more 50% off of your time.

10:35
Wow, thank you so much for letting us know. I mean, if you had like demands for how you'd want this place to change or the whole system change like what would those demands be?

10:49
Mental health services. I need more more IA like Internal Affairs to be not too much cracking down on the inmates, but cracking down on the officers.

11:02
What did you see them doing?

11:05
Other than, you know, the altercations with inmates. Like I had a run-in with an officer where I wanted to get on the scale to check my weight. And there was a female officer there so I guess he was like trying to impose a female officer. I'm like, 'man, what are you doing?' Yeah, so he grabbed me and he–cuz he grabbed my hand, put the cuff around my hand.

11:34
Oh, yeah, I can still see the mercs from the cuff. It looks like a shark bite.

11:38
And then twisted my ankle, making my wrist like this [turning his wrist in at 90 degrees]. Pushing up against the cuff and tightened the cuff up. And he was like, twisting my ankle and my hand behind my back. I was like 'man, what are you doing? What are you doing?' And remember when I told you about the bubble part? Yeah, that's the part where there was a blind spot and there isn't a camera right there. So he pushed me up against the door and he like twisted my hand behind my back. He's like 'you pussy motherfucker, do something now do something now.' And the other officer walked up. The other officer is like 'yeah, yeah, we got a couple of minutes, you can kick his ass right here.'

12:18
They're literally dragging you to an area where they can't be seen.

12:23
Yeah, to do that.

12:24
That's horrifying. Can I–with your permission, there's a place in Chicago called the Chicago Torture Justice Center for people who have experienced abuse by police and abuse in Cook County Jail. And if you want any services from them or just to connect with other people who have dealt with stuff, I'm more than happy to connect you with them.

12:24
Hell yeah, most definitely.

12:36
That's okay? Yeah, and of course, you know, I'm just so grateful that you were willing to speak if anything else comes up.

12:56
Make sure this gets to somebody that's gonna do something about it.

12:59
We're connected with a bunch of journalists and people who are trying to document these abuses. Yeah, because, you know, this stuff happens every day and it only continues happening because these walls are so thick and people's experiences are made invisible.

13:12
Yeah, I was literally telling myself like, if I literally had a lawyer. Like, I would tell my lawyer what the hell's going on. And he's like, but like I said, I couldn't even get on the phone to contact anyone. I was literally trying to call one of the numbers that you see on TV for the justice system, but my phone would not work. And in order to get on those phones, those your PIN number must work. And it's like, they was not trying to let me do that.

13:44
Yeah, I mean, five months is just like, I mean, how are you...

13:47
And a lot of people a lot of people can't do a lot of things because, say if something worse are happening. If I were to put out a grievance, they would make sure that that grievance never got to the right person. Like people who try to file a lawsuit. A lot of people don't get those lawsuits filed, because you must give those slips to an officer, that officer doesn't want to get sued. So he'll take that slip, rip it up, and make sure it never gets seen. They do things like that, too.

14:20
I mean, were you afraid of retaliation too?

14:23
Definitely, like I was literally like trying to avoid that officer. You can't hide, like all they got to do is just look your name up in the computer, and they'll find where you're at, and they'll come harass you. Like my celly, he was experiencing the same thing, and it was an officer named Bill, he was coming and harassing him, saying 'you bitch ass nigga, you bitcha ass nigga,' like every division came in. And he was in the hole with me. I witnessed it firsthand, he came in the cell, my celly wasn't doing anything wrong. He was just reading over his paperwork that he had for court, officer came in calling him a few provocatory terms, 'bitch ass nigga, pussy motherfucker,' just all kinds of crazy stuff. And then he was like, 'you see, that's exactly what I'm talking about. But I can't do nothing to him. If I was to say something to him, I would get verbal harassment, verbal assault.' And so a lot of times you got to it's like you have to pick and choose your battles against law enforcement, people that are supposed to be protecting your safety. These are the same people that are doing the harm to you. Yeah, so when you do want to go over the top over there to their supervisor. If he's supervising, they brush it off. 'No, that's not my officer.' It really is, you know, since there's so many blind spots within the county. A lot of people get away with a lot of things.

16:03
Yeah, I mean, everybody's just out to, like the staff are just out to protect each other.

16:10
Protect the jail, protect their jobs. Their whole sales, basically.

16:15
What were the facilities like? Like, the water?

16:19
Terrible, it's mold everywhere. They came and painted. All they did–and the officer told me–if they actually put money in to painting the place, there would be no jail, right? Because all they do, they came in and they never fixed the mold. They only sanitized it and painted over. It never fixed any of the mold. That's like literally, I walked past like a numerous cancerous amount of mold. And you can smell it. Like as soon as I walked off, I'm like, 'man, what's that smell like?' Everybody's like, it's mold. They sanitized, sprayed it, and then painted right over. And they've been doing that for years. For years. Throughout the entire jail, Division 6, Division 9. Well, Division 11, Division 8, those are the newest ones. But the one I was in, Division 6, that's the oldest one and Division 9. All they do is spray over it and paint over it. And then like the pipes in there, my cell got flooded maybe like twice. But there was just one guy, his water in his cell never stopped. So all night they had to wake up, get the water out of their sink and flush it down the toilet. And they had to constantly keep doing that all night, throughout the night, all day, throughout the day.

17:41
Yeah, I mean, that's just unlivable.

17:45
Most definitely, it's unlivable. And the showers, we have to shower one at a time because like there's no curtain. You can walk clean in and no privacy at all. No privacy.

18:01
I'm so sorry. I was like struggling to respond because it's really unimaginable. I mean, do you feel like you've had lingering like health problems and things that you're dealing with as a result of being in there?

18:11
My chest hurts, but that was from like a couple years ago. I guess that. But I put in the slip for that and they never gotten anything. So when I call for inhale it hurts right here. I guess the stabbing pain or hurts my chest to breathe, and that never get seen and my teeth never got seen.

18:35
I'm so sorry. And instead they just sent you to solitary.

18:38
Solitary confinement, just to shut me up. Because when you go to solitary confinement, it's like your rights are literally taken away from you even more, from you being in a jail. It's like they look at you even less when you're in solitary confinement.

18:56
I mean, how do you feel like people will survive in these conditions?

19:00
People will bank themselves, meaning they'll refuse housing, try to get to somewhere better. Or people will play the crazy role to try to get to a mental health deck. So you literally have to play the crazy role. Or I have to refuse housing just get somewhere better in the jail system.

19:24
I mean, do you feel like they were treated any better there because we've also heard about terrible conditions and mental health decks too, so.

19:29
I'm not sure I've never been on one. I'm not sure, but the last time I was on one, it was a single cell, and my cell flooded and all they did was move me to another cell.

19:40
And that was also in was also in Cook County?

19:43
That was also in Cook County, yeah. 

19:44
It's just completely you know, not giving you any services. Yeah, I mean, were there other things that you feel like you needed that they didn't provide, or that they promised in that handbook that you didn't get?

19:57
Pretty much I think that sums up everything.
