00:00
Sure. Here it's okay. I got it. Yeah, yeah. Here I got you.

00:08
Okay, so yeah, like my experience in there was horrible. So like when you get in there, they don't give you water, like just like, you know to keep you hydrated. Yeah, they give you the–

00:18
Do you want to sit down?

00:19
Sure.

00:25
Thank you so much for being willing to talk to us.

00:27
No problem. If you don't mind too when we're done with this interview if I can use your phone.

00:31
Yeah do you need to use it first?

00:33
Because like I was trying to get in contact with my cousin to see where he's at cuz he's supposed to be, you know, waiting for me I'm supposed to have my money cuz my brother bought me out and everything but ya know, just like, give me one second because I need this [cigarette].

00:45
You're good. Take your time. Do you want to just use the phone first so that you can call him?

00:49
Sure let me use the phone first and that way I know my ride is coming.

00:52
[Turning to another volunteer] Do you mind if we use your phone?

01:00
Yes. Oh, it's so hot outside. I'll put this in my bag.

01:08
Do you want a paper towel?

01:09
Yeah, please. They still don't treat people right. I feel like this jailhouse is really for just why murderers, rapists, you know, people with DUIs, people that actually deserve to be in there. They have a lot of people in there that don't even deserve to be in there. They have a young 20 year old and um, she was only in there for a warrant that she didn't even know about. And then and then a warrant was really you know, what I'm saying, it wasn't really for her. Yeah, they don't tell you, they don't they don't when you have like, I don't even know I had a warrant. I'm from rocking a fam I live in [a city 2.5 hours away], so this warrant came out of fucking nowhere. You know I'm saying? Like even if I was in [that city] okay, it probably would have you know, eventually they probably, it would eventually, the warrant would have like caught up with me. I'm legit though. I have my insurance, my [?] upstate, I pay my SS-22 on time. Everything was legit. So they really didn't have no reason? So kind of like, 'oh something, we're gonna you know do this.' It was just the warrant part.

02:11
Like I said, the warrant wasn't even for me. It's really was for a domestic incident. So they're trying to force me and get me to come down there because I refused to turn my baby's father in because I said 'no, I dropped the shit.' I was like, you know what I'm saying? Because this stuff does mess up people's family. It's like 'okay, yeah, I know, you know, these things happen.' But if we work it out, people make mistakes. I shouldn't have ever got you guys [the police] involved. But it's like, now that I got you guys involved, they say 'oh, he's a criminal.' So now the state picks it up. They bond out. Also you don't want to testify for him? Now we're gonna force you to do the time for him.

02:45
And it should be about you, what you want to do.

02:47
Because yeah, because you know what? Cuz I was like, 'No, I'm good.' I want to ask for a mandate to you know, to get him out and get him bonded out and stuff like that. And so like for for this to go on for you to be like 'Oh, I'm gonna force you to steal' even though you're saying 'no, this man is not like that, you know, he's a good person. You know, we just had a little misunderstanding and it's not gonna happen again.' Instead of them doing that it's like 'no, because we want him because his past.' You're still judging him off his past, this man has changed though. Okay, we all have incidents. We all go through things like I said, but he's changed, he apologized, he didn't think, it ain't happened again. We're on good terms. But now, months later–and this is back in March. We're in September, so months later. Now you put a BP out on me and you're like, 'Oh, you're the cause of the endangerment for the child. Now we're finna let you either bond out, or you're going to have to sit for 30 days.' And now got another court date it's almost time for me to go to.

03:38
But I have three children you guys, 2, 4, and 6. You know how I feel about being away from my babies. My babies like 'where my mommy, where my mommy?' I just came out here with my cousin, just trying to have a good time on a Saturday night. My kids is good, but it's still like, they're missing me. How am I supposed to explain it that my children and never see me get in trouble with no motherfucking law since they been born. The last time was seven years ago that was for loud music because my neighbor was being–and then the police was being–still violating. You know how they're violating? They asked for me my ID. I said, 'Sir, I live here. You don't need my ID. You asked me to turn down the music. And that's what I did.' Again, a lot of these cops have abused their power and a lot of them in there do the same thing. They get lazy. They don't care about us. They don't check on us. They don't make sure we good. 

05:28
I'm gonna get off of my story. I'm gonna tell you what's going on up here. Okay. When I come up in here, you got people that detox in there come up in here. You got people that are on drugs and stuff like that. If you have people that are on drugs and stuff, you know they usually have a rehabilitation center. We're here for these people to be able to get help these types of way. You got this, this older lady over here throwing up a trail to the bathroom, but you sitting up here on your ass asleep. Why are you sleeping on your job? We could come up to you knock you the fuck out and be like 'we gonna take your keys and try to get up out of here.' Because you're sleeping on your job. And then we told her, one of my cell inmates or whatever, she was like, 'scuse me, 'don't you hear this lady throwing up?' It woke me up out of my sleep. So if I hear throw up wake me out of my sleep, I'm pretty sure the guards should have heard that. She was like 'who's throwing up?' Okay, help her. I didn't ask them like this lady said 'please can you get somebody I'm gonna pass out.' I said 'CO! This lady finna pass out.' They're like, 'Oh, okay. I'll tell somebody else.' What do you mean you want to tell somebody else? Now this this lady could just be dead. Yeah, you're gonna take your time coming because you don't care about us. Another thing like I said, no water. No water, no hydration or nothing. You know what they give you? They say, 'you get the water out the sink.' They got a sign up there that says 'the water in the sink is not toilet water. Matter of fact is better than the water–it's just like the water that runs at your house.' Bitch I don't drink my fucking sink water! What you mean it's running–then they had a nurse say 'even better.' They're saying 'even better!'

06:39
And then in there, and then they give you milk. Like some of us are lactose intolerant. I don't drink milk. I don't drink cow milk. I drink almond milk and oat milk. I don't I'm done with that cow shit. I'm just saying feed it to the the babies. I don't need–you know, I got my own breast milk. My own breast milk. I breast fed all three of my children. I'm a nature girl. So for them to do it. I'm like, you ain't even trying to you know, accommodate, put nutrition up in here. If you're trying to help get...they got no fucking nutrition. You know they keep giving us? Bread, peanut butter, vegan bologna sandwiches. And you know what that shit do? It fucks you up. It makes you throw up. It makes you sick. It's some shit up in there that is fucking with your stomach. No way bread should be fucking with your stomach though. This is supposed to be regular bread. It that's vegan bologna, or whatever you want to fucking call it, why the fuck is this fucking up my stomach if it's really not meat? And then when we get meals, you only given us every now and then a good meal, but it's cold. You bring that to us cold, and then we ain't got none that's warm. The tray don't even fit in the fucking microwave. So we got to eat the shit cold. You're giving us hard-ass bread, brick-ass bread.

07:51
Inhumane. I ain't never coming back up here again. Winnebago County treat you way better than this. You get three meals a day. They make sure you have your cup of water. They're gonna make sure they send you to a facility if you–they have an actual facility in the place. You go on a whole nother level when you go for rehabilitation. Once when you get to that point with detox, it's time for you to go to another level. Yeah, so once you're done, you're good on that, like they keep them on that level. Then you go to another level for you to get even better. That's how they should be.

08:17
It's so big here! Then they change the process of getting out of here. They put us in cuffs to take us out to get our bond. To take us out of cuffs to put us back in a motherfucking cell. We were sitting down there for hours. I've been bonded out. He said 'I've been paid for your bond 10:30 this morning. I'm just going down at five o'clock sitting in the cell to nine o'clock today right now. We just getting out.

08:47
You know people got anxiety and everything in there. Then they say 'oh, we'll have someone, you know counselors talk to you and everything like that.' You don't want to tell them nothing. And they gonna label you as crazy. Gonna put you in a fucking psych ward if you try to tell them something about yourself.

08:59
They give you only these little orange drinks and stuff like that, no type of hydration. Everybody's pH balanced is fucked up. They not trying to give you no water or nothing. I said 'so what we're supposed to get the water out of?' You better save your carton of milk, your milk carton, your juice carton, and then use that for a cup. They is treating people like straight animals. Cruelty up in here. They didn't even care. Like I said, some people don't even need to be there. A 21 year old, she has a newborn child, she literally came from DuPage. This warrant ain't even for her. She up in there, they had to give her a pump right? You know we got two breasts, why they only give her one hand pump? I said, once you pump that one, the other one's gonna be too full, then you're gonna have milk ducts, then you're gonna have to...she's like 'I know I'm stuck up in here, but only one good thing, because the Secretary of State came saying, 'Why are you up in here? I see you breast pumping.' She needs to get home for her child. She should not be up here. [The Secretary] is like 'I'm trying to get out of here today.' She's like 'today or tomorrow because you really don't need to be in here, and unless you got a child breastfeeding, that's gonna slow her milk down. That's gonna affect the baby. You know how far she is from our child? So if you have like a warrant for traffic court or anything like that, I do not think you should be held in here. Even if you're on the bond, you shouldn't even be giving them a bond, you should be giving them an I-bond, giving them a court date.

10:34
Was there any other like medical care?

10:37
And then the medical people? They don't give a fuck about you either. This lady said 'I'm hurting. I'm hurting. It's like can you please just,' it's an older lady, 'can you please give me some Tylenol? The man in the window goes and tells her 'no.' The medical person, he refused to give her Tylenol. And she she was like, 'Please give me Tylenol.' So she started acting a fool. Why we gotta act a fool to get what we want?

11:07
And then they punish you.

11:08
And then they're like 'please calm down.' And then it still takes too long to give them what they need. And then you have COs...

11:21
Make them bankrupt.

11:23
Bankrupt. And that's why they're hauling a lot of people in here now for little petty shit just for money. People have I-bonds like that lady, a lot of people that came out with me where I-bonded. They did not need to be in there. Why are they still in here from 4am this morning, all the way to nine o'clock at night. And she already posted to court, she was I-bonded, she should have been out.

11:44
Yeah, I mean how have you gotten through it?

11:47
I haven't. Bad anxiety. To keep myself from crying, I'm thinking about my babies. I'm calling like 'please get me up out of here please.' I'm like 'pay my bond.' My brother came through for me to pay my bond and he's in the army. He's making sure I'm good, but it's the principal or the fact that they make it really hard in there for you to contact anybody. I'm like, 'can I get my phone call?' 'Hurry up hurry up. Gotta go go go.' I'm like my ride that thought I was supposed to come out right away and ended up leaving me, now they gotta turn back around. I gotta make sure they good I'm like what a nightmare. I had to hurry up I'm like 'man I'm gonna have to come out and I ain't gonna call nobody. I'm thankful I ran into you all today, that there is a tent out here. I'm gonna use your phone, call my people. But it's just like, what if y'all weren't out here? What if it was later than this? It gets dangerous for females like us at night. People can come raping us, snatch us up. You know what's going on right now? Trafficking, motherfuckers doing that shit for real, killing people out here. And they're sitting on their ass being lazy with the paperwork and everything. You know what now? I got my own car, and my keys, my wallet, my phone. Guess where it's at? At [a police station], and they gonna tell me I gotta wait from Monday to Friday from 7:30 to 2:30 to come pick up my shit. So now I gotta wait to the morning to come back out here to pick up my shit. I gotta drive all the way back out here to pick up my shit. Making it hard for people.

11:47
I feel like a lot of the police officers and COs up in there do not need to work up in there bringing that attitude to your job. If you're not going to be compassionate. The don't have no hospitality. Don't have no type of public relations. You don't need to be working over here. If you're not gonna be walking back and forth to check in on them and be like, 'Hey, you good? Let me get you're tray, let me get your–' They don't even come try to take the stuff. Every thing is just building up. Garbage is building up. They're not trying to clean. Rooms get dirty, everything. And then for newcomers, we're all in one so you're out in the open. Like with a booth and stuff like that, versus when you go all the way upstairs with 40 other fucking women in a bigger part with separate cells, but you don't have a cellmate. I just feel like all that shit is just wrong. Like all of it is just wrong. Like how they treat newcomers is wrong.

14:07
I mean, did they make you feel unsafe on top of all that?

14:10
Heck yeah! Even like I said, like people that's in there that is detoxing. People in there that don't need nothing. I asked you something, you gotta act like you don't want to give it to me. Like they didn't even give me a dry towel. You know how may times I asked for dry towel? Then they giving us a soap that's made with bleach.

14:30
That's horrifying on your skin.

14:34
But you know, as women we're not supposed to use nothing down there right, any way, but water and stuff like that apart from vinegar and getting the tub, epsom salts. But I'm saying though for the rest of our skin? Then they don't even give you no deodorant. I'm funky as fuck, I'm so sorry if y'all smell me. But I'm just saying like, after washing up with soap so we need to protect when wear our stuff.

14:57
Were you able to sleep?

14:58
No, I couldn't even sleep. It was like in and out in and out. And then you have women who want to talk all night. So it's like, when are y'all gonna be quiet? You'd think the COs would be like 'Be quiet!' You got COs that will say that, at the wrong time. We finna get up. It's almost 7:30 bitch, they can still keep talking, we're gonna get up now. Now when it was 3:00, 2:00 that's when you told, 'y'all need to be quiet, they're trying to sleep.' And then they keep a light on right over you so so it's still kind of like day, it's not dark, completely dark. They keep the light on over you. And then guess what else? It's cold as shit up in that motherfucker. Ice box. And they give what thin-ass piece of blanket. They supposed to give you a face towel, a dry towel. They give you, you know like the sheet, like the other sheet that goes on top of the sheet that you put over the mattress? The flat one? They give you that. They give you two of those and like a thin wool sheet. That's it. So you're still freezing, and then you don't get no socks. You only get black shoes. So you know I don't wear socks, but you know what I'm saying. If you want to take a shower you better take it early, when the shower is clean. Other than that it's unsanitary. So you gotta like really be mindful when you're in there.

16:17
There's like no privacy too?

16:18
No privacy. So when you go use the bathroom it's just open area. You just don't look in between, but you can actually see people, they're getting nothing you know, I'm saying. None of that.

16:29
I'm glad that though it's not like how people say when it comes to the inmates. I was an inmate, I got a number so. It's not like that. It was like you see how we're talking? You're gonna meet some people up in there that's in jail that you can talk with, you're gonna have some people in there, you can be like 'girl, hmm...like okay, just leave that alone.' But you will find some people who can gel with, who you can relate to. They'll be like 'yeah, man. We don't need to be up in there. I hope you get out. Our blessings to you.' Let me tell you what I got. A whole, I found me a whole new family. Numbers. [She pulled out a piece of scrap paper with dozens of names and phone numbers.] They're hugging me as I'm moving up out of there. Like, 'don't come back.' I got numbers so I can stay in contact with them. They're stay in contact with me when they get out, wishing me the best, wishing them the best, type stuff. I'm saying it's not like it's not really like that. You know, it may be different when you're at that 40 women floor. That's more estrogen.

17:26
Look I mean we got plenty here. We're doing well.

17:30
Everybody here you can tell, this energy is gelling. Everybody cool up around here. When you with more women you might find that you just gonna be bothered. 'I'm tired, I'm mad up in this bitch. I wanna get out.'

17:43
You know they restrict all the resources and then they punish people when people fight, but it's like what else are you supposed to do? You don't have anything.

17:50
And then you remember like okay, they supposed to have sections where, okay. Maybe you have a school, education time, going to the library and like that. So now they got this tablet thing where I'm like, 'oh all you get tablets in here?' So on the tablet, they say we got free education, free call, free messaging, but it's a catch to it. The only way you can do the calls and the messages is if you do educational stuff, right? Do some courses, get some points, watch some videos, do little things to help you be able to watch movies or give points. They say the call is supposed to be free. But the messages, I think the messenges had to be set up, you still had to pay for like the messages and stuff like that.

18:34
You remember how much it was?

18:36
6 cents a message or something?

18:37
Yeah, that's what she says, 6 cents a message. Um, so I just feel like that's still not enough like, so I'm like, What about the books? So like, when I was ready to get out, I sent a couple of books and I'm like, they should have books like this up there. Where we could be able to read if we up in here, have more board games or stuff like that for us to do if we're gonna just be sitting here, not just looking at TV. We need to educate our minds while we're up in here. Let's get get some resources to get the fuck up out of here. If we do need counselors or therapists actually be for real about that shit.

19:08
Did you have laundry? Did you have rec time? Were you outside at all?

19:12
No outside. One room. One sound. One band. That's how they go one move, one all. Unless you got it coordinated in a different time. Other than that, no, you didn't. What else you asked me?

19:27
So let me tell you about that. You only get one extra pair on a certain day of the week for your laundry. You only get one suit whatever you're getting yourself, that's it. Yeah, they're not going to give you–a certain day a week, then they come around give you that extra thing. Other than that, no, you gotta wait. If you need more towels and more things. They told me I gotta write a slip. 'You need to write–' I said 'where the slip at?' 'You got to wait to get this slip. We ain't got no slips right now.'

19:28
Laundry?

19:29
So no order, no schedule.

19:59
No type of organization. It's like so, how am I supposed to get the towel? 'Well, you gotta wait for this and this shift. And it's like, it always depends on what mood this fucking CO finna be in? What CO am I gonna have today who's actually going to be like, yeah, I'm gonna help you. I can get this for you. Let me let me be nice to do this and that. Other than that, 'nah, I can't do that. I don't know.' I need a towel. 'You gotta wait,' or 'you gotta write a slip,' what you need the most of you gotta write a slip, you gotta have more money.

20:29
They do get a lot of money.

20:30
Yeah, and they just like they do everything they can not to help you. Thank you so much.

20:37
Yeah, no problem. But yeah, that's why I feel like they hauling a lot of people in here for unnecessary stuff, like that you understand, like you're an I-bond. You're still taking too long for I-bonds to get out. For traffic court or a missed court date that we didn't even know about. So we ended up getting a warrant that we didn't even know we had a warrant up out. Why don't y'all call our phone or if that's not the case, text it, or mail, or serve us. Come to my door and serve me like you're supposed to. Start with being like, 'You need to be in court. You've been served.' So many options.

21:20
It's possible to do this shit.

21:21
It is you know, and that's why I'm just like, at this point, like I said, they need a better system. Better organization. If you want to have people working in the jail, you need people that actually care. Stop hiring people that go and treat everybody like a criminal. I'm in my outside clothes, you still treat me like a criminal 'til I walk up out this bitch. Why are you still treating me like I'm a criminal? Like I'm an animal.

21:42
Well and anybody does work there who cares, they fire. Like I know people–

21:46
Really?

21:47
Yeah, I've heard of many people being fired because they'll tell COs like 'you're not a social worker, don't build relationships.' They tell you to be afraid. They tell you to treat people poorly. Like it's not just the people that they hire, which is, you know, obviously based on that, but it's also that they're trained.

22:01
They train you to do that! And that makes sense of why their minds–it's like I'm trying to, I'm an energy reader. So I'm just like...

22:10
Well and they train people to think everything is manipulation. Everything is a lie.

22:15
Like zombie control, Matrix type shit. So, you know, I'm not with that Matrix type shit. You know, I'm more like like my mind be free. There's a lot of stuff going on in this world because nobody knows how to come together as one no more, they don't know how to be there for each other no more.

22:41
It's beautiful that I mean, you made some friends and you got relationships. I mean, how did people form friendships given like all the restrictions on like, actually building community in there? Like how did people do it?

22:52
Well, you know, when you all in one room, you got really no choice. You know someone's gonna start talking eventually. We're all sitting around, just like quiet like, 'someone's gonna break the ice.' That's how that goes. Or some people, they'll walk up to–some people, like I said, they're a vibe reader. They'll be like 'oh, can I talk?' Everybody got along with me in there. Because I'm just you know, I am a gel person and I'm an understanding person too. And I'm not just gonna treat you like shit because...we're up in here. You respect me. I respect you. I always get respect before I disrespect you. And people forget morals. They forget how to treat people.

23:30
Who's in charge out here?

23:30
[A CO walks up and asks 'who's in charge here?'] I'm sorry what?

23:36
Who's in charge out here? Nobody's in charge out here.

23:40
Nobody's running this?

23:42
We just give people what they need.

23:44
I'm gonna ask you something. See these [picking up Naloxone packs]? You guys want more?

23:51
Sure, bring it over.

23:53
I talked to the director and if you guys are interested, we're buying more of them.

23:58
[Asked a confrontational question, unintelligible.]

24:00
Well we can't tell you everything. I heard you needed those. I'm the one who brought you up because of what you do.

24:13
Yeah, that's good, thank you. [The officer walked away and gave his name.] They gave me some of those [Naloxone] too. They were like 'you may save a person's life.'

24:22
Which like, you know, they should just be providing actual medical care in there. Because they they're like, you know, 'we'll give you Naloxone when you leave.' It's for people who are already experiencing overdose.

24:23
I read on here...

24:28
It's amazing though.

24:39
This is what that lady needed up in here. Right, right. If she's detoxing, if she's experiencing anything. This was supposed to help her right?

24:50
They give it to people when they're leaving, right but like they don't actually give it to anybody when they're actually there.

24:57
That's bogus. That's what I'm saying. Bogus as hell for me. I'm sorry, but I was like, I'm glad you're taking everything. Because I was like I'm gonna write a report. Because that's the thing, nobody's talking. But when I got out of here I'm talking.

25:11
Yeah. Do you want your band off?

25:13
Oh, yes. I'm free. Free me from them, for real.

25:22
Did they direct you over here when you're leaving?

25:24
I just kept asking. They said across the street. But you know who told me, it was another girl that was in there. She was like, 'it's a booth.' She knew. I was like 'okay, yeah.'

25:38
Is there anything else you want us to know?

25:42
Really, I just wanted y'all to understand how people are being treated in there. How shitty it is. I understand how people's minds go crazy in there. I understand why people snap. I understand why they are the way they are. Because of how they're being treated. If they were being treated better, a lot of people would have a little bit more sanity. A little bit more hope. You're taking everybody's hope away.
