The facilities are not being cleaned adequately or consistently. I haven’t been to the hole but I was on the power wash crew in Div 9 and power washed the hole. The deck was filthy and the shower was filthy and molded. It was disgusting. Also Individuals in Custody who are in the hole have to be handcuffed constantly. Even while using the phone. They have to be cuffed to the wall. 

I am currently waiting to begin this ConTextos program and will work on the impact if any. To pass time I read and write. Think of new ideas for the mental health app I'm working on. 
Due to us being on the program deck we know speaking freely or standing up for something can get us kicked off the program dock. And we are constantly being reminded of this. So know I do not feel that I am able to speak freely. 

There is no privacy. We are in the day room with 44 people and then we are in the cell with a celly. There is no privacy. Our cells are searched once a week. No reasons are given. Being incarcerated for the past 18 years I have become numb to these treatments. I've been forced to strip, squat, and cough so many times I've lost count. 

My mental health has been severely impacted by jail experiences. The lack of mental health treatment is a detriment to the healing I thought I was experiencing while in IDOC. I'm dealing with PTSD and haven’t had any treatment plan or appointments to even make a plan.

Since being back in Cook County it's been hard for my loved ones to get approved on my visiting list. While in IDOC custody I had 30 people approved on my visiting list but now I only have two. Cook County is harder on people presumed to be innocent—harsher than those convicted and serving sentences. 

I want the public in Cook County to know that the Cook County Jail is either abusing their tax dollars or flat stealing. When entering IDOC I was only given one blanket that had holes in it and one half a sheet. The shoes I was given were used already and beyond wearable. My DOC uniform had writing on the pants and the shirt and both had holes in them.

For breakfast we eat a peanut butter jelly sandwich, a small breakfast bar, and a kool aid. For lunch there is one lunch meat sandwich or peanut butter jelly sandwich with a snack. For dinner most days I can't tell what it is.

I've been to several other institutions during my 18 year incarceration and none blatantly neglects individuals in their custody like Cook County. I have not received an apple, orange, or even a banana on my tray since I’ve been here. This is maybe the only institution that doesn't serve milk with breakfast, so I would like for the public to ask where their money is being spent.
