00:03
Thank God you know, this morning I didn't wake up with a nice little after spraying some pepper spray from dude next to me but that was a whole different way to wake up.

00:16
Strong but I respect it. Well look okay, so there a couple of I can just show you the form because it's a little weird you know, we're interested in basically everything that's going on in the jail. I do programming in there. So I mean, I'm in there sometimes but I don't get you know, an understanding of the day to day situation. It sounds like the main thing recently has been like contaminated water and stuff like that. Has that been? Have you been dealing with that? You gotta go with what you got. Yeah. So they're just drinking from the sink or...?

00:51
Usually what we do is like, during the dinner meals, we'll get like a kindergarten kid milk or whatever. And then we just save those, just use those as cups. Don't get anything else really. Yeah. Styrofoam cups. I spent one day in the Cermak part of it. Where I managed to steal the styrofoam cup. Yeah, and I was basically the hero of my my block if you will, like oh my god, he has an actual cup.

01:25
Well I would love to actually ask you about Cermak because from what I understand, it seems like it's basically falling into disrepair. So how—I mean how was your experience?

01:34
It's a madhouse, complete madhouse. Mainly because of the clientele but also doesn't help that their waiting times are ridiculous like it literally I was threatened by a nurse one time that if I didn't like sit still for just you know blood pressure thing that I did sit still enough for that she was gonna send me to Cermak which was like basically meaning you're gonna be in there all day. Like it was a threat to be sent.

02:01
Well, I mean, we've heard—one of my favorite quotes was somebody telling me that the medical teir is where you just go to die, which I mean—

02:07
I didn't see that but yeah, it doesn't surprise me.

02:10
Yeah. What I mean, like were you were you getting care? Were you just sitting in there all day like what was it like?

02:17
Yeah, just a bunch of lunatics in an insane asylum essentially. Yeah, I waited for a good eight hours just to get X rays, which I never got any X rays. Yeah, just sitting in the cell with people flipping out and so many outrageous ways like—

02:40
So you're still in a cell when you're in Cermak you're not like in beds or that sort of thing?

02:43
Yeah. Yeah, exactly.

02:45
Which I imagine if you actually you're in like desperate need of medical care would not—

02:48
Would not want to be in the cell. Yeah, a bunch of [eople threatening to commit suicide and things of that nature. Yeah. Fun stuff.

02:57
Yeah, fun stuff. You know, I'm glad you're out.

02:59
Did you like bust a bone or something?

03:04
No, no. It was a basic just like, just checkup? Yeah. Which I never got checked up.

03:10
Yeah, that's ridiculous.

03:12
I mean, how often are they supposed to give you checkups?

03:15
I don't think there's an exact timeline when it comes all the medical stuff. Like for example, yesterday, I got a Corona shot right? It's been a while since I got a booster and you were offered free food and like toilet paper if you took like another one. Yeah, I was due for another one. The thing is though, they only offer them randomly at various points. So you can sign up but only four people a day could sign up. And like it wasn't even for like the next day it could be next week. It could be for the week after.

03:55
What division were you in if I can ask? Sorry.

03:58
Three. It was random, like what you would think like, imagine if we were back in the days of like, 2020 Or no, not 2020 When the vaccines first came out, yeah. Yeah, like imagine them doing it that way. I mean, I was only talking with people in there. I was just like, I can only imagine how bad it must have been like when like, before there was even a vaccine. Total lockdown situations and all that muscle.

04:27
Oh, yeah. I can't even imagine. I mean, it's Cermak in the entire jail, right? 

04:30
As bad as I had it it must have been worse.

04:32
Well, I mean, how are they handling? Like, if people were actively like vocally you know, talking about suicide and everything. Were they just leaving people in their cells?

04:41
That was a response. Yeah. It was one guy this dude who actively was always talking, like 'I'm gonna do it tonight. I'm gonna like' he'd actively say it.

04:52
Yeah, they didn't care?

04:56
No one fucking cared. It was—sadly enough, even within the inmate status. It was just kind of like, 'Yeah, gotta do what you got to do. Like, we don't want you to do it. But...'

05:12
If it feels like you got no other choice—

05:13
Life is life and death is death, you know. It's a sad, sad state of affairs, but it is what it is. I mean, the mental health services in there is severely lacking. There's a lot of, well first off, drug addiction is a huffe thing. And just basic mental care. One thing I had noticed is, so they always kept it slightly chilly, right? Like I mean, it's easily like 15 degrees warmer out here than it is in there because they constantly keep it lower. And I'm assuming this is my guess, to keep aggression down because people are less likely to get into fights, I imagine, in colder environments than they are in hotter environments. That's my guess. But then it doesn't help though when adding to the aggression is the sparse amount of food that is distributed, because I mean, I've lost weight, and I already went in there weighing I think I weighed in at like 148 or something like that. I can only imagine I'm probably like, down to the 130s by now. And that's only after like three weeks. Like I could feel myself, like, I don't know how people exercise because I'm just like, I can't waste the energy.

06:31
It's like you're you're maybe getting four sandwiches a day, right with like nothing in them.

06:36
Every breakfast, well you get to pieces—and it's like four in the morning, you get two pieces of bread, and then like two small cups up to peanut butter and then two small things of jelly. And that's from like, that's supposed to last you from like 4:00am till noon or so.

06:57
That's not enough for a child.

06:59
Exactly. I ate more in kindergarten. And then lunches very, very slightly better. Yeah, you get at least like a small little thing of like four crackers or something like that. And a bologna sandwich, which I don't even believe that's real bologna. I haven't tasted bologna since I was a kid—

07:18
But it doesn't seem right—

07:19
Don't seem like meat. But I don't know what it is.

07:23
You know, we finally got to see we actually got to see us right after all these years. It didn't even look like food. You know, with that tiny little mustard packet? Yeah, no.

07:32
No, like I said food is sparse and it's just enough to to make it appear that when you come home it doesn't look like you spent time in summer camp Dachau. Club Treblinka. I know that sounds harsh.

07:52
No, no, I get it. Yeah. No, I mean, we hear the comparison all the time. I think it's accurate. I mean, how did you how did you get through, how did you cope? Were you friendly with folks like how did that—

08:03
Well, folks coming in and out like I mean, I was I'm genuinely genuinely cool with everyone, and in life in general. Yeah, but like this morning reason I woke up to pepper spray was because a dude was just like punching another dude out or whatever. Like, fights like that happen all the time. They were in my like, close to three weeks there there were three springs like within five feet of me. Yeah, like it just takes up the entire room, the smell, like you just got to wet down the cloth real quick. Kinda wander around and and that's not even like the police or like, okay, so at least this morning, there was a punch thrown. The other times I saw there was actually no violence involved.

08:50
I mean, I've been threatened with Mace as like a program volunteer. Like I feel like they just spray it around, honestly.

08:56
I once was at a Bush rally back in like, I don't know, '07 or something like that in San Francisco. And yeah, I got straight up by the cops. Right in the eyes. Oh, it's not good. But even just being nearby.

09:07
Yeah, oh, it's terrible. I mean, I have friends in there who like aren't given inhalers and everything's it's like they're getting pepper sprayed. They have asthma. They have no inhaler and just like, This is not it's not survivable for people.

09:21
No, actually, it's funny you bring that up. There was a guy that I was with for like a week. He was like, next to me. And he had an inhaler, but he always had a hard time like getting refills and shit like that. And he like needed it.

09:33
Yeah, of course. I mean, it's just like the air is unbreathable, so dusty too and everything.

09:38
What I don't understand with all of these difficulties, how is this like a billion dollar industry?

09:47
Well get this, they purchased a $4 million helicopter last year. So toilets are stopped up but they thought they have a helicopter. 

09:54
Oh, right!

09:57
Very crucial, yeah, it's ridiculous. [Someone walks up to the jail support tent - It's all free if you need anything. Yeah. Do you need water?] Yeah, no, it's ridiculous. I mean, that's why we're out here doing this work. I have friends in there, I have friends in IDOC. Everywhere is just like milk for cash, and meanwhile, nobody's getting food. Nobody's getting clean water—

10:16
And medical or mental health.

10:18
And it's tough because every time we talk about these issues, the jail's response is like, well, we need more budget and it's just like, well, the budgets going up—they have construction going on in the back of that facility, right now. Just like you have stopped toilets, like this is not—no building is allowed to operate like this other than jail. So yeah, anyway, I'm just so sorry for what you what you've been through.

10:38
And what's even worse is that I didn't do anything. Like this guy made up a story that I was chasing them with a machete because he wanted to get back at me over some bullshit. As it turns out, if I'm chasing after someone with a machete—

10:50
Other people are gonna see it.

10:55
Well, I actually do have a family one, so I do have one at home. But I've never pulled it out on anyone or anything like that. It's an old World War II family thing or whatever. But yeah, this guy made up the story just to get at me for whatever stupid reason. So he'd made up the story that they're chasing after him with a fucking machete. Yeah, so I got to see about that. Luckily, today, my landlord. I've known the guy for 13 years or so, he finally bailed me out. So it's my birthday today—

11:32
Happy birthday!

11:34
So this is the best birthday present ever.

11:38
How are you gonna celebrate when you get home?

11:40
Well, first off, I desperately need to find smokes.

11:44
We have some!

11:45
Seriously?

11:46
Is Newports okay?

11:47
Anything!

11:48
We got you.

11:50
Oh my god!

11:57
Here we have a light too, hold on. Here you go, I got you some extra.

12:07
Sent by the gods. Oh, jesus.

12:09
That's why we carry them, you know. Everybody needs them.

12:13
This is my first time I've ever been in jail. And I just all I know is from the movies. Yeah, in the movies, everyone's always smoking cigarettes.

12:25
What else are you supposed to do?

12:28
Going back to the whole lack of foodstuffs or whatever. Like in the movies, they show people like trade cigarettes. For us it was food. So constantly trading food like as soon as the food trays would come in. So like, oh, I have an egg for a snack pack or something like that. It's like trading is is vital to being a prisoner there if you're gonna make it.

12:55
I mean, have you seen people like giving each other food or anything like that? Because it's definitely like, I don't know.

13:01
I gave food but a lot of people. Yeah. I don't know I even had this guy because we have people called 'workers' that are kind of like the ones in charge of cleaning up the common areas. They get, I get a little extra commissary and things like that. But the one dude is just like, 'dude, just make sure no one's taking advantage of you' because he saw me giving away food or whatever. And he's just like, 'we don't see that a lot.' Which I never saw anyone. Like, 'hey, I happen to have a little bit extra that I can spare.'

13:39
Well and it's tough because—

13:41
People get cutthroat about stuff too, which goes—you know, that's why the what's the old phrase? Like 'civilization's only existing upon'—wasn't it something like 'we're only three meals away from civilization disappearing or something like that.' Yeah, that's what it's like in there; you actually witness that firsthand. Where it's just like, look if we if suddenly an entire day worth of food was to just disappear, this entire place would be in flames. Because everyone's always hungry.

14:11
Yeah. Well, and it's just like, I mean, the people that I've seen who do trade food, and people are always willing to give food away as long as they have enough, you know?

14:21
Right, but that's a rarity. Sorry I'm in ecstasy right now [smoking the cigarette].

14:29
Yeah. Take your time. Take him home. Yeah. We definitely have a lot of people who celebrate with cigarettes and then they're like, 'we don't even smoke.' I'm like, 'Okay, here we go. I mean, congratulations'—

14:39
This'll make you smoke if you don't smoke.

14:40
I'm like I don't know how I feel about participating in this. But—

14:45
Yeah, I don't, you know, I don't do heroin, but after being in there, you know I'm thinking about it...I'm not, but you know.

14:50
Well, don't worry, you know, they technically have mental health providers on tablets. So you'll be covered, right? Yeah, right. Yeah, no, I'm just so I'm so glad that you're out. How are you going to decompress and like, relax?

15:05
Well, tomorrow—because here's my problem. So directly up California is the Shakespeare division off of Fullerton and California. So that's where they have my cell phone, my wallet. That's where they first processed me. So I intend to go there. And then because I didn't have my phone and I suck at memorizing numbers nowadays, I wasn't able to—I kept trying to get a hold of the officers telling me like, 'Hey, can you look up the phone number to my job? So I can call them and let them know, hey,' because I got arrested probably about eight hours before I was supposed to go into work. And like I literally had just woken up, it was like six in the morning or something. And I'm just you know, waking up, getting my morning routine going, you know, yeah, I should probably get laundry done before I go to work, you know, which I don't even want to think what that smells like after all this time. But yeah, none of them would give me any numbers. Like even just check their phone and just be like, 'Hey, can you look up the number' because they at least had phones in there that you could use and I was just wanting to call my job. Just be like, 'I'm sorry, but' yeah, so as far as they know, yeah, I just disappeared off the face of the map. But I mean, they probably think I'm dead because I should have gotten the check the next day. And I obviously haven't picked it up. So it's just like if I decided to do no show and quit, wouldn't I have at least grabbed the check first?

16:28
Yeah, no, I mean, do you feel like you'll be able to get your job back?

16:31
Are you I don't know. Like I again, I'm just getting out so yeah, of course.

16:35
I'm sorry. I don't to bombard you.

16:36
No, I mean this has been on my mind for the last like, God knows how long. Luckily, luckily they love the shit out of me there so I'm assuming they've replaced me but hopefully they can work me in just a little bit while I try to find another something.

16:50
Let me check. We have, I think a pamphlet for [a local re-entry trauma center] and they have a bunch of re-entry stuff. So let me see.

16:57
What do you do?

16:58
I've been a cook all my life.

17:00
Oh that's great. What's your favorite to make?

17:03
Well, I'm always gonna be a nerd, so pizza. That's currently what I'm doing but I've done that's what I just got off. You know, I fell asleep after a long shift and then that's when I woke up. I still had this shirt on or whatever. Yeah. So finding a cooking job isn't really the hardest in this town because I've done all fields, fine dining, last job I had was a Malaysian place with Japanese French, but, you know, sandwiches, that kind of stuff as well. Whatever. Basically, a chef I worked under as a kid, he basically said don't worry about culinary school. Just work and learn. Don't waste your money. Anyway, um.

17:49
Well look, let me I'm gonna give you my phone number too. So if you need anything else, let me know.

17:55
Any more information too I can give you.

17:57
Yeah, please.

17:59
I mean without you experiencing it firsthand, which I don't want anyone to go through. I mean, unless they really deserve it.

18:07
Few of us do.

18:08
It was disturbing some of the things I heard people talking about their.

18:11
Can I ask what you were hearing? [Looking at the pamphlet] this is by the way, just so you know, [the local re-entry trauma center]  helps folks who were formerly incarcerated, anything you need. There are a bunch of other reentry resources. So if you end up needing anything else, or you lose your job or anything, you can just text me and I have a whole database of stuff that I can send you so just let me know.

18:29
Oh my God. Sorry, I was in such a hurry I completely forgot. Oh, shit. 23 bucks in my—

18:39
I have some cash if you need anything.

18:41
No I should go and check to see if I can, because I still have a receipt.

18:44
Okay, yeah. Take your time.

18:48
Anyway, I didn't even think about that.

18:50
Yeah, do you want to go in with somebody so you're not going back in there alone?

18:54
If you wouldn't mind.

18:55
Yeah, sure. [Looking at the other volunteer] do you want—you haven't been in there before, so let me...you can come too if you'd like?

19:13
Come take a nice little stroll.

19:16
The more the merrier.

19:18
Best field trip in the world.

19:22
Thank you, thank you again for talking to us. I know it's—

19:26
Anything I can do, because like I said I'm not used to this myself.

19:31
Of course. It's a really like hair raising experience.

19:36
You were in there for how long and lost like eight pounds?

19:40
Like, close to three weeks, two and a half, something like that. Like I said, I don't know how people exercise in there because I was just like, no, I gotta conserve every bit of energy. Yeah, and there are people who love to fight too. So all the stories of—God I think I've learned more about gun types in the last two weeks than I have all my life just watching TV.

20:10
Yeah. I mean, what do people talk about like to pass the time you know?

20:15
You know, this one dude kept talking about how his baby mama's pissed off at him that he's like marrying this prostitute that he's in love with. They fell in love over a crack pipe.

20:34
I assume like most people are just trading stories and stuff. I mean, I can get bored after five minutes, so I don't know how people do it. Are you just going in through here?

20:42
I'm assuming I need to...I don't know who to ask.

20:46
I mean, I've only ever gone through this entrance to use the bathroom so we'll find out. But—

20:52
Oh my god the bathrooms. You're probably getting the better end up here.

20:56
Oh, yeah. No, this is these are at least like usable. We'll just hang out and make sure you're okay.

21:09
[A few minutes passed while trying to recieve his $23, which the officer said were located in the precinct with his phone.] [Before recording, he said 'I've only been outside twice in the last three weeks.'] That's from one building to the other to get the shot. And that was all five minutes each way, less than, and 10 minutes there. The other was a court thing which was in this auditorium, which was by BMO [?], or whatever it is, the video thing. And yeah, they just let us run, again one building to the other. But otherwise, yeah, that was the only air and sunlight I got to see the entire time.

21:50
Did you have rec time because I mean, I know some folks who haven't had rec time in like a year.

21:55
Yeah, I've heard of the legends. There are people that get that. Depends on where you're at. I'm assuming that's for the lifers or something. I'm not certain on that.

22:04
I guess, I mean, nobody should be a lifer in the jail. That's the craziest part. It's just like—

22:09
There are people that were like in there that had been there for years where I was. And it was just for drunk violations.

22:18
Just waiting for years for your trial. I think the longest I've ever heard of longest I've ever known someone is 10 years. Yeah, no, not even not even finished with their trial.

22:29
[Turning to the jail support volunteer] I would be as shocked as you but I'm not after what I've experienced.

22:34
I mean, especially in some of these cases, right. The state just drags out the trial as long as they possibly can. And then you're looking at years and years and then you have to wait for sentencing. I mean, it's just infinite, so and then they don't even always take off time served for your sentence. So it's just like burnt time.

22:50
That's another thing too is, like as I'm feeling this right now. It's like I was thinking about shaving like the night before I got taken was like so bushy right now. Yeah. But just clothing. So you're given the DOC, clothes or whatever. There was only one time in the time that I was there that they actually changed out the clothes.

23:12
Wait so you're wearing your clothes for like a week and a half? 

23:15
Yeah. It was more than that because it was only—it was actually more like, like almost two weeks or whatever. Because it was just the other day that I finally got changed or whatever. And the pants were like, literally tearing apart. The blanket that I was given was like half of a blanket the very first night I was there, because it gives you a mat—

23:42
On the floor or on a bunk?

23:43
No it's on this wooden, not wooden—this stone slab got it raised like this high or whatever.

23:50
It sounds like a mausoleum.

23:52
Yeah, basically. I mean, if it was completely devoid of anyone in there, it would you would think it's a mausoleum. But my very first night, it took me about 24 hours just to get a mat so I had to sleep on the concrete slab and then it took another full day before I got a blanket or coverings. There are no pillows. Yeah. And everyone's always fighting over just basic materials such as you know, a cup. Cups are non existent blankets. Like I said, the blanket that I got was just like half threads.

24:29
Yeah. Are there other things that people were fighting for or trying to get?

24:34
Oh, well, of course food was a big one. And you know, just just basic materials. Yeah. And then sleep is not existent.

24:45
Well you're up at four, right?

24:47
Well we keep getting woken up at various different times. So like you might get an hour sleep here. Then you'll be awake for like three and you might get a half hour there. Like there was no idea of sleep schedule whatsoever. Yeah, other than all the lights were off but that doesn't mean you can sleep really.

25:05
Right. Well, let me hold on let me check for when the next bus is gonna get here because I want to make sure that you can also get home too.

25:12
Yeah, I mean, I'll get there and I can wait. Trust me I've waited, patience is one of the first things I've had to rely on heavily.

25:20
Yeah, of course. All right. Let's see. Well, it should be coming in eight minutes. They're saying—

25:36
Do you want us to walk you there?

25:38
No, I'm good. Yeah, if that's north and I can catch it that way—

25:42
Yeah. You shouldn't have to fight for a fucking blanket. Like that is ridiculous. And were you I mean,

25:52
Oh, toilet paper is also one fighting thing.

25:54
Well, it sounds like they're compensated people for the vaccine with toilet paper so clearly, of importance. Yeah, I mean, were you safe? Like did you feel safe?

26:06
I didn't feel—no one actually, like, threatened me. But it was just kind of a precarious you got to of course you gotta tip toe. Especially, it depends too much officers are around. Some are pretty chill but some are just automatic, like Spartan Roman soldier like wannabes.

26:29
Yeah, looking for any excuse to just fuck with you.

26:34
Exactly, exactly.

26:37
They would sometimes I'd be talking to somebody and they turn the walkie talkie all the way up, just so that I couldn't hear them and then they could have an excuse to be shitty to me. It's just like that kind of stuff all the time where it's always like, feel like it's like the men in their mid 20s who are just on a power trip.

26:53
That's a very good point.

26:54
Every time. Well, I'm glad that you've, you know, generally felt safe, whatever that that looks like but you know, like, are you going to be okay mental health wise? Like it's it is trauma. You know, you've gone through something so I mean, are you going to be—

27:13
I've lived this long. Okay. Yeah, gonna get going.

27:20
Yeah, no worries.

27:22
I'm gonna grab myself something.

27:23
Yeah, please. Do you want any more Newports for the road?

27:29
If you're willing?

27:30
That would be awesome. I wouldn't mind like one more granola bar. Thank you.

27:30
Yeah, sure. I got you.

27:53
It's great to meet you. You have my phone number. If you have anything else you wanna talk about. Thank you. Thank you. You really have no idea how much this helps so I really appreciate that. We all take care. Yeah, you too. Happy birthday too!
